You must use Gob 0.92.2 (in gnome cvs or from
http://ftp.5z.com/pub/gob/) or later with gegl-0.0.2.  Earlier
versions of Gob may not work with gegl.

For more information on gob see http://www.5z.com/jirka/gob.html. 

Gob allows "private", "protected" and "public" variables and
methods.  In gegl we use these keywords as follows:

Variables:

1) "public" variables appear in the class struct in class.h,
available to all.

2) "protected" variables are not used in gegl for now.

3) "private" variables in gegl class files are similar to
C++-style "protected" variables, in that these gob "private"
variables are made available to subclasses by including the
gob-generated class's private header (class-private.h) in the
subclass.

Methods: 

1)"public" methods are available to all through the class.h
header.

2)"protected" methods are available to subclasses by virtue of
being included in the class's class-private.h header.

3)"private" methods are available only to the class where they
are defined  They are static functions in the class.c file.  

In short, methods are like in C++. And for variables, gob
"private" means C++-protected and there is no gob "protected"
used in gegl.

There is some support for remaking generated .c and .h files
automatically.  Look in gegl/gegl/Makefile.am for rules at the
bottom.

>make clean    removes *.o's but not .h's or .c's or .gobs
>make gobclean removes generated .c and .h files, leaves .gobs
>make gobs     builds all generated .c and .h files from .gobs

Dependencies more or less work so if you edit a .gob file, the
make will pick up that depend and rerun gob for you before
compiling, but the very first build seems to have trouble
sometimes. (.deps files problem somehow). Just cd to the gegl dir
and do a make gobs for the first time. 

The testgegl program just creates some operators and runs them.
There is a PrintOp for debugging. See testgegl.c for details.

The testgeglfile program has code for reading tiffs and
displaying images in a gtk window. You can use this for testing
op classes as well.

calvinw@mindspring.com
