The GIMP project has a number of main core developers, all interested in
different areas and located in different places. To work within this setting,
new contributors should be willing to participate in the normal development
process of the project, and demonstate that they are interested and committed
to the advancement of the project.

This starts with communication via emails, GIMP news groups, developer lists,
documentation, proposals, and irc as well. GIMP interest groups at conferences
and Siggraph are other places where developers and users meet regularly. 

For the most part there is no direct management in the traditional sense
though. No managers will tell anyone they must do something. Rather people and
interested parties offer to contribute. This means it is up to potential
contributors to learn about what is going on by looking at documentation (user
    and programmer) and studying code and reading emails. 

Once developers prove they can contribute (usually by coding things like
    bugfixes as patches, or writing plugins) they graduate to working on
libraries and similar things by finding areas that need work or maintanance and
proposing and taking the initiative to take care of those areas.

Based on the schedule in the previous chapter there are plenty of areas that
need contributions. There are lots of opportunity both in the main areas of
GIMP and GEGL for helping out. Experienced graphics programmers interested in
contributing should have no trouble finding areas that need contributors and
making progress. 

However to start with, it might be of great help to have serious contributors
actually meet some core GIMP programmers and discuss many of the development
issues and investigate how and where they can fit into the project. Any of the
authors of this document could help investigate that possibility. This might
help in understanding how GIMP can fit into a particular production environment
as well. 

Please feel free to contact the authors with any questions or issues and ideas
about the above and becoming involved with GIMP and GEGL.
